In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a collection of pretrained and ﬁne-tuned large language models (LLMs) ranging in scale from 7 billion to 70 billion parameters. Our ﬁne-tuned LLMs, called Llama 2-Chat, are optimized for dialogue use cases. Our models outperform open-source chat models on most benchmarks we tested, and based onour human evaluations for helpfulness and safety, may be a suitable substitute for closed source models. We provide a detailed description of our approach to ﬁne-tuning and safety improvements of Llama 2-Chat in order to enable the community to build on our work and contribute to the responsible development of LLMs.
2. Llama 2-Chat, a ﬁne-tuned version of Llama 2 that is optimized for dialogue use cases. We release
In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a family of pretrained and ﬁne-tuned LLMs, Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, at scales up to 70B parameters. On the series of helpfulness and safety benchmarks we tested, Llama 2-Chat models generally perform better than existing open-source models. They also appear to be on par with some of the closed-source models, at least on the human evaluations we performed (see Figures 1 and 3). We have taken measures to increase the safety of these models, using safety-speciﬁc data annotation and tuning, as well as conducting red-teaming and employing iterative evaluations. Additionally, this paper contributes a thorough description of our ﬁne-tuning methodology and approach to improving LLM safety. We hope that this openness will enable the community to reproduce ﬁne-tuned LLMs and continue to improve the safety of those models, paving the way for more responsible development of LLMs. We also share novel observations we made during the development of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, such as the emergence of tool usage and temporal organization of knowledge.
We believe that the open release of LLMs, when done safely, will be a net beneﬁt to society. Like all LLMs, Llama 2 is a new technology that carries potential risks with use (Bender et al., 2021b; Weidinger et al., 2021; Solaiman et al., 2023). Testing conducted to date has been in English and has not — and could not — cover all scenarios. Therefore, before deploying any applications of Llama 2-Chat, developers should perform safety testing and tuning tailored to their speciﬁc applications of the model. We provide a responsible use guide¶ and code examples‖ to facilitate the safe deployment of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat. More details of our responsible release strategy can be found in Section 5.3.
4.4 Safety Evaluation of Llama 2-Chat . . . . .
