1. Llama 2, an updated version of Llama 1, trained on a new mix of publicly available data. We also increased the size of the pretraining corpus by 40%, doubled the context length of the model, and adopted grouped-query attention (Ainslie et al., 2023). We are releasing variants of Llama 2 with 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters. We have also trained 34B variants, which we report on in this paper but are not releasing.§
In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a collection of pretrained and ﬁne-tuned large language models (LLMs) ranging in scale from 7 billion to 70 billion parameters. Our ﬁne-tuned LLMs, called Llama 2-Chat, are optimized for dialogue use cases. Our models outperform open-source chat models on most benchmarks we tested, and based onour human evaluations for helpfulness and safety, may be a suitable substitute for closed source models. We provide a detailed description of our approach to ﬁne-tuning and safety improvements of Llama 2-Chat in order to enable the community to build on our work and contribute to the responsible development of LLMs.
variants of this model with 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters as well.
In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a family of pretrained and ﬁne-tuned LLMs, Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, at scales up to 70B parameters. On the series of helpfulness and safety benchmarks we tested, Llama 2-Chat models generally perform better than existing open-source models. They also appear to be on par with some of the closed-source models, at least on the human evaluations we performed (see Figures 1 and 3). We have taken measures to increase the safety of these models, using safety-speciﬁc data annotation and tuning, as well as conducting red-teaming and employing iterative evaluations. Additionally, this paper contributes a thorough description of our ﬁne-tuning methodology and approach to improving LLM safety. We hope that this openness will enable the community to reproduce ﬁne-tuned LLMs and continue to improve the safety of those models, paving the way for more responsible development of LLMs. We also share novel observations we made during the development of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, such as the emergence of tool usage and temporal organization of knowledge.
2. Llama 2-Chat, a ﬁne-tuned version of Llama 2 that is optimized for dialogue use cases. We release
