We believe that the open release of LLMs, when done safely, will be a net beneﬁt to society. Like all LLMs, Llama 2 is a new technology that carries potential risks with use (Bender et al., 2021b; Weidinger et al., 2021; Solaiman et al., 2023). Testing conducted to date has been in English and has not — and could not — cover all scenarios. Therefore, before deploying any applications of Llama 2-Chat, developers should perform safety testing and tuning tailored to their speciﬁc applications of the model. We provide a responsible use guide¶ and code examples‖ to facilitate the safe deployment of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat. More details of our responsible release strategy can be found in Section 5.3.
In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a family of pretrained and ﬁne-tuned LLMs, Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, at scales up to 70B parameters. On the series of helpfulness and safety benchmarks we tested, Llama 2-Chat models generally perform better than existing open-source models. They also appear to be on par with some of the closed-source models, at least on the human evaluations we performed (see Figures 1 and 3). We have taken measures to increase the safety of these models, using safety-speciﬁc data annotation and tuning, as well as conducting red-teaming and employing iterative evaluations. Additionally, this paper contributes a thorough description of our ﬁne-tuning methodology and approach to improving LLM safety. We hope that this openness will enable the community to reproduce ﬁne-tuned LLMs and continue to improve the safety of those models, paving the way for more responsible development of LLMs. We also share novel observations we made during the development of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, such as the emergence of tool usage and temporal organization of knowledge.
Figure 3: Safety human evaluation results for Llama 2-Chat compared to other open-source and closed source models. Human raters judged model generations for safety violations across ~2,000 adversarial prompts consisting of both single and multi-turn prompts. More details can be found in Section 4.4. It is important to caveat these safety results with the inherent bias of LLM evaluations due to limitations of the prompt set, subjectivity of the review guidelines, and subjectivity of individual raters. Additionally, these safety evaluations are performed using content standards that are likely to be biased towards the Llama 2-Chat models.
1. Llama 2, an updated version of Llama 1, trained on a new mix of publicly available data. We also increased the size of the pretraining corpus by 40%, doubled the context length of the model, and adopted grouped-query attention (Ainslie et al., 2023). We are releasing variants of Llama 2 with 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters. We have also trained 34B variants, which we report on in this paper but are not releasing.§
Figure 2: Win-rate % for helpfulness andsafety between commercial-licensed baselines and Llama 2-Chat, according to GPT 4. To complement the human evaluation, we used a more capable model, not subject to our own guidance. Green area indicates our model is better according to GPT-4. To remove ties, we used win/(win + loss). The orders in which the model responses are presented to GPT-4 are randomly swapped to alleviate bias.
